👤 Student 1 — Slides 1, 2, 3
[Slide 1 – Title]

"Hi everyone, today we're presenting the PIR Motion Sensor — one of the most widely used sensors in IoT and smart devices. I'm [Name], and together with [Name], we'll walk you through how it works, where it's used, and how to connect it to a board."

[Slide 2 – Working Principles]

"PIR stands for Passive Infrared. The word passive is key — the sensor doesn't emit anything. Instead, it detects infrared radiation that's naturally emitted by warm bodies, like humans or animals.
Inside the sensor there are two pyroelectric elements placed side by side. When a person moves across the sensor's field of view, one element picks up more IR than the other — that difference triggers the output to go HIGH.
The Fresnel lens on the front focuses and segments the infrared field, giving the sensor its characteristic detection zones. The output is a simple digital signal — HIGH when motion is detected, LOW when it's not. That simplicity is what makes it so popular in IoT."

[Slide 3 – Applications]

"Because it's cheap, low-power, and needs no complex processing, the PIR sensor shows up everywhere:

Automatic lighting in hallways and bathrooms
Burglar alarms and security cameras
Energy management systems that turn off HVAC when a room is empty
People counters in retail stores
Even wildlife cameras in the field

Essentially, any application that needs to know 'is someone here?' without a camera is a candidate for a PIR sensor."


👤 Student 2 — Slides 4, 5, 6
[Slide 4 – Commercial Products]

"Let's look at some real products built around this technology.
The HC-SR501 is the classic hobbyist module — it costs under a euro, has adjustable sensitivity and delay, and works directly with Arduino or Raspberry Pi.
On the consumer side, the Philips Hue Motion Sensor and Ring Motion Detector use PIR as their core detection method for smart home automation.
For professional security, the Bosch DS151i is an industry-standard PIR detector with tamper protection and long-range detection up to 15 meters.
So the same core technology scales from a €0.80 module all the way to enterprise security systems."

[Slide 5 – Code + Wiring]

"Connecting a PIR to an Arduino is about as simple as it gets. Three pins: VCC to 5V, GND to GND, and the output pin to digital pin 2.
The code reads that pin and triggers an LED on pin 13:
if (digitalRead(pirPin) == HIGH) {
  digitalWrite(ledPin, HIGH); // motion detected
}
The sensor handles all the signal processing internally — you just read a HIGH or LOW. You can also tune the onboard potentiometers to adjust sensitivity and how long the output stays HIGH after detection."

[Slide 6 – References]

"To wrap up — the PIR motion sensor is a mature, reliable, and incredibly accessible technology. It's a perfect example of how a single well-designed component can power everything from a €5 Arduino project to a commercial security system.
Our references include the official HC-SR501 datasheet, Arduino's sensor documentation, and the Wikipedia overview of PIR sensors — all listed on this slide.
Thanks for listening — we're happy to take any questions!"